# HARDENING SALT
本主题包含可用于保护和强化Salt环境的配置提示。 如何最好地保护和加强你的Salt环境在很大程度上取决于你如何使用Salt、在哪里使用Salt、你的团队结构、从何处获取数据以及你需要什么类型的访问（内部和外部）。

https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/topics/hardening.html


## GENERAL HARDENING TIPS
Restrict who can directly log into your Salt master system.

Use SSH keys secured with a passphrase to gain access to the Salt master system.

Track and secure SSH keys and any other login credentials you and your team need to gain access to the Salt master system.

Use a hardened bastion server or a VPN to restrict direct access to the Salt master from the internet.

Don't expose the Salt master any more than what is required.

Harden the system as you would with any high-priority target.

Keep the system patched and up-to-date.

Use tight firewall rules.

SALT HARDENING TIPS
Subscribe to salt-users or salt-announce so you know when new Salt releases are available. Keep your systems up-to-date with the latest patches.

Use Salt's Client ACL system to avoid having to give out root access in order to run Salt commands.

Use Salt's Client ACL system to restrict which users can run what commands.

Use external Pillar to pull data into Salt from external sources so that non-sysadmins (other teams, junior admins, developers, etc) can provide configuration data without needing access to the Salt master.

Make heavy use of SLS files that are version-controlled and go through a peer-review/code-review process before they're deployed and run in production. This is good advice even for "one-off" CLI commands because it helps mitigate typos and mistakes.

Use salt-api, SSL, and restrict authentication with the external auth system if you need to expose your Salt master to external services.

Make use of Salt's event system and reactor to allow minions to signal the Salt master without requiring direct access.

Run the salt-master daemon as non-root.

Disable which modules are loaded onto minions with the disable_modules setting. (for example, disable the cmd module if it makes sense in your environment.)

Look through the fully-commented sample master and minion config files. There are many options for securing an installation.

Run masterless-mode minions on particularly sensitive minions. There is also Salt SSH or the modules.sudo if you need to further restrict a minion.

# SECURITY DISCLOSURE POLICY
email
security@saltstack.com

gpg key ID
4EA0793D

gpg key fingerprint
8ABE 4EFC F0F4 B24B FF2A  AF90 D570 F2D3 4EA0 793D

gpg public key:

-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
Version: GnuPG/MacGPG2 v2.0.22 (Darwin)
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=wBTJ
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
The SaltStack Security Team is available at security@saltstack.com for security-related bug reports or questions.

We request the disclosure of any security-related bugs or issues be reported non-publicly until such time as the issue can be resolved and a security-fix release can be prepared. At that time we will release the fix and make a public announcement with upgrade instructions and download locations.

SECURITY RESPONSE PROCEDURE
SaltStack takes security and the trust of our customers and users very seriously. Our disclosure policy is intended to resolve security issues as quickly and safely as is possible.

A security report sent to security@saltstack.com is assigned to a team member. This person is the primary contact for questions and will coordinate the fix, release, and announcement.

The reported issue is reproduced and confirmed. A list of affected projects and releases is made.

Fixes are implemented for all affected projects and releases that are actively supported. Back-ports of the fix are made to any old releases that are actively supported.

Packagers are notified via the salt-packagers mailing list that an issue was reported and resolved, and that an announcement is incoming.

A new release is created and pushed to all affected repositories. The release documentation provides a full description of the issue, plus any upgrade instructions or other relevant details.

An announcement is made to the salt-users and salt-announce mailing lists. The announcement contains a description of the issue and a link to the full release documentation and download locations.

RECEIVING SECURITY ANNOUNCEMENTS
The fastest place to receive security announcements is via the salt-announce mailing list. This list is low-traffic.
