# Core Configuration - 核心配置

## Install Salt Cloud - 安装Salt Cloud

Salt Cloud现在是Salt基础软件中的一部分。它被合并作为[Salt version 2014.1.0](https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/topics/releases/2014.1.0.html#release-2014-1-0)。

在Ubuntu上，使用以下命令安装Salt Cloud：
```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:saltstack/salt
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install salt-cloud
```
如果在macOS上使用Salt Cloud，则必须安装`curl-ca-bundle`。 当前，此软件包无法通过`brew`获得，但可以通过MacPorts使用：
```bash
sudo port install curl-ca-bundle
```
Salt Cloud依赖于`apache-libcloud`。 Libcloud可以通过`pip install apache-libcloud`安装。

### Installing Salt Cloud for development - 安装Salt Cloud的开发环境
当完成了Salt的开发环境安装工作后，同时也就启用了对Salt Cloud功能的开发支持，只要确保按上面的段落安装了`apache-libcloud`。

请参考这份Salt开发环境的安装指导材料: [Installing Salt for development](https://github.com/watermelonbig/SaltStack-Chinese-ManualBook/blob/master/24.Developing-Salt.md)。

## Core Configuration - 核心配置

可以在Salt Cloud配置文件中设置许多核心配置选项和一些对虚拟机配置生效的全局选项。 默认情况下，此文件位于`/etc/salt/cloud`。

### Thread Pool Size

当salt cloud通过`-P`参数以并行模式运行时，您可以通过使用正整数值指定`pool_size`参数来控制线程池大小。

默认情况下，线程池大小将设置为salt cloud管理的VMs数量。
```yaml
pool_size: 10
```

### Minion Configuration

在此文件中设置了默认的minion配置。 Salt-cloud创建的minions从此文件获取其配置。 此处可以使用在[Configuring the Salt Minion](https://github.com/watermelonbig/SaltStack-Chinese-ManualBook/blob/master/chapter04/04-2-0.Configuring-the-Salt-Minion-Salt-Minion配置.md)中找到的几乎所有参数。
```YAML
minion:
  master: saltmaster.example.com
```
特别是，如果端口未设置为默认端口时，则此位置将指定salt master及其监听端口的位置。

与大多数其他设置类似，Minion配置设置在配置文件之间继承。 例如，如上所述，master的设置可能包含在主要的 `cloud` 配置文件中，但是其他设置可以放置在provider, profile或map映射配置文件中：
```YAML
ec2-web:
  size: t1.micro
  minion:
    environment: test
    startup_states: sls
    sls_list:
      - web
```
Salt cloud创建新的Minon时，它可以将grain信息自动添加到Minion配置文件中，以标识最初用于定义它的来源。

生成的grain信息将类似于以下内容：
```YAML
grains:
  salt-cloud:
    driver: ec2
    provider: my_ec2:ec2
    profile: ec2-web
```
可以通过cloud配置文件中的`enable_cloud_grains：'False'`选项来禁用salt-cloud grain的生成。

### Cloud Configuration Syntax

与云平台交互的特定数据在[此处](https://github.com/watermelonbig/SaltStack-Chinese-ManualBook/blob/master/15.Salt-Cloud.md#Cloud-Provider-Specifics)设置。

云平台服务商provider的配置设置可以存在于多个地方。 第一个是在`/etc/salt/cloud`中：
```YAML
# /etc/salt/cloud
providers:
  my-aws-migrated-config:
    id: HJGRYCILJLKJYG
    key: 'kdjgfsgm;woormgl/aserigjksjdhasdfgn'
    keyname: test
    securitygroup: quick-start
    private_key: /root/test.pem
    driver: ec2
```
云平台服务商provider的配置数据也可以位于`/etc/salt/cloud.providers`或任何与`/etc/salt/cloud.providers.d/*.conf`匹配的文件中。 这些位置中的任何位置的所有文件都将被解析为云服务商provider的数据。

继续使用上面的示例配置：
```YAML
# /etc/salt/cloud.providers
# or could be /etc/salt/cloud.providers.d/*.conf
my-aws-config:
  id: HJGRYCILJLKJYG
  key: 'kdjgfsgm;woormgl/aserigjksjdhasdfgn'
  keyname: test
  securitygroup: quick-start
  private_key: /root/test.pem
  driver: ec2
```

> 注意：`/etc/salt/cloud.provider.d/`中的Salt Cloud provider配置不应指定 `providers` 的启动密钥。

同一别名块中也可以有多个云配置块。 例如：
```YAML
production-config:
  - id: HJGRYCILJLKJYG
    key: 'kdjgfsgm;woormgl/aserigjksjdhasdfgn'
    keyname: test
    securitygroup: quick-start
    private_key: /root/test.pem
    driver: ec2

  - user: example_user
    apikey: 123984bjjas87034
    driver: rackspace
```
但是，使用此配置方法需要更改profile文件配置块。 云平台服务商provider的别名需要附加provider的key/value设置，如以下示例所示：
```YAML
rhel_aws_dev:
  provider: production-config:ec2
  image: ami-e565ba8c
  size: t1.micro

rhel_aws_prod:
  provider: production-config:ec2
  image: ami-e565ba8c
  size: High-CPU Extra Large Instance

database_prod:
  provider: production-config:rackspace
  image: Ubuntu 12.04 LTS
  size: 256 server
```
请注意，由于存在多个条目，因此必须在上面的示例`production-config：ec2`中明确说明provider的别名和名称。

此数据与`salt-cloud`二进制文件的`--list-location`，`--list-images`和`--list-sizes`交互，需要使用云平台provider作为参数。 使用的参数应为配置的云平台服务商的别名。 如果云平台服务商的别名具有多个条目，则应使用`<provider-alias>：<provider-name>`。

为了提供更加可扩展的配置，将`--providers-config`（默认为`/etc/salt/cloud.providers`）添加到了cli解析器中。 它允许按文件添加provider的配置。

### Pillar Configuration

It is possible to configure cloud providers using pillars. This is only used when inside the cloud module. You can setup a variable called cloud that contains your profile, provider, and map to pass that information to the cloud servers instead of having to copy the full configuration to every minion. In your pillar file, you would use something like this:

cloud:
  ssh_key_name: saltstack
  ssh_key_file: /root/.ssh/id_rsa
  update_cachedir: True
  diff_cache_events: True

  providers:
    my-openstack:
      driver: openstack
      region_name: ORD
      cloud: mycloud

  profiles:
    ubuntu-openstack:
      provider: my-openstack
      size: ds512M
      image: CentOS 7
      script_args: git develop

  maps:
    my-dev-map:
      ubuntu-openstack:
        - dev-test01
        - dev-test02
        - dev-test03
        - dev-test04
    my-prd-map:
      ubuntu-openstack:
        - prd-web01
        - prd-web02
            minion:
              id: custom-minion-id-app1-stack1-frontend
            grains:
              roles:
                - webserver
              deployment: datacenter4-openstack
        - prod-db01
        - prod-db02

### Cloud Configurations
Scaleway

To use Salt Cloud with Scaleway, you need to get an access key and an API token. API tokens are unique identifiers associated with your Scaleway account. To retrieve your access key and API token, log-in to the Scaleway control panel, open the pull-down menu on your account name and click on "My Credentials" link.

If you do not have API token you can create one by clicking the "Create New Token" button on the right corner.

my-scaleway-config:
  access_key: 15cf404d-4560-41b1-9a0c-21c3d5c4ff1f
  token: a7347ec8-5de1-4024-a5e3-24b77d1ba91d
  driver: scaleway

Note

In the cloud profile that uses this provider configuration, the syntax for the provider required field would be provider: my-scaleway-config.
Rackspace

Rackspace cloud requires two configuration options; a user and an apikey:

my-rackspace-config:
  user: example_user
  apikey: 123984bjjas87034
  driver: rackspace

Note

In the cloud profile that uses this provider configuration, the syntax for the provider required field would be provider: my-rackspace-config.
Amazon AWS

A number of configuration options are required for Amazon AWS including id, key, keyname, securitygroup, and private_key:

my-aws-quick-start:
  id: HJGRYCILJLKJYG
  key: 'kdjgfsgm;woormgl/aserigjksjdhasdfgn'
  keyname: test
  securitygroup: quick-start
  private_key: /root/test.pem
  driver: ec2

my-aws-default:
  id: HJGRYCILJLKJYG
  key: 'kdjgfsgm;woormgl/aserigjksjdhasdfgn'
  keyname: test
  securitygroup: default
  private_key: /root/test.pem
  driver: ec2

Note

In the cloud profile that uses this provider configuration, the syntax for the provider required field would be either provider: my-aws-quick-start or provider: my-aws-default.
Linode

Linode requires a single API key, but the default root password also needs to be set:

my-linode-config:
  apikey: asldkgfakl;sdfjsjaslfjaklsdjf;askldjfaaklsjdfhasldsadfghdkf
  password: F00barbaz
  ssh_pubkey: ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIKHEOLLbeXgaqRQT9NBAopVz366SdYc0KKX33vAnq+2R user@host
  ssh_key_file: ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
  driver: linode

The password needs to be 8 characters and contain lowercase, uppercase, and numbers.

Note

In the cloud profile that uses this provider configuration, the syntax for the provider required field would be provider: my-linode-config
Joyent Cloud

The Joyent cloud requires three configuration parameters: The username and password that are used to log into the Joyent system, as well as the location of the private SSH key associated with the Joyent account. The SSH key is needed to send the provisioning commands up to the freshly created virtual machine.

my-joyent-config:
  user: fred
  password: saltybacon
  private_key: /root/joyent.pem
  driver: joyent

Note

In the cloud profile that uses this provider configuration, the syntax for the provider required field would be provider: my-joyent-config
GoGrid

To use Salt Cloud with GoGrid, log into the GoGrid web interface and create an API key. Do this by clicking on "My Account" and then going to the API Keys tab.

The apikey and the sharedsecret configuration parameters need to be set in the configuration file to enable interfacing with GoGrid:

my-gogrid-config:
  apikey: asdff7896asdh789
  sharedsecret: saltybacon
  driver: gogrid

Note

In the cloud profile that uses this provider configuration, the syntax for the provider required field would be provider: my-gogrid-config.
OpenStack

Using Salt for OpenStack uses the shade <https://docs.openstack.org/shade/latest/> driver managed by the openstack-infra team.

This driver can be configured using the /etc/openstack/clouds.yml file with os-client-config <https://docs.openstack.org/os-client-config/latest/>

myopenstack:
  driver: openstack
  region_name: RegionOne
  cloud: mycloud

Or by just configuring the same auth block directly in the cloud provider config.

myopenstack:
  driver: openstack
  region_name: RegionOne
  auth:
    username: 'demo'
    password: secret
    project_name: 'demo'
    auth_url: 'http://openstack/identity'

Both of these methods support using the vendor <https://docs.openstack.org/os-client-config/latest/user/vendor-support.html> options.

For more information, look at Openstack Cloud Driver Docs
DigitalOcean

Using Salt for DigitalOcean requires a client_key and an api_key. These can be found in the DigitalOcean web interface, in the "My Settings" section, under the API Access tab.

my-digitalocean-config:
  driver: digitalocean
  personal_access_token: xxx
  location: New York 1

Note

In the cloud profile that uses this provider configuration, the syntax for the provider required field would be provider: my-digital-ocean-config.
Parallels

Using Salt with Parallels requires a user, password and URL. These can be obtained from your cloud provider.

my-parallels-config:
  user: myuser
  password: xyzzy
  url: https://api.cloud.xmission.com:4465/paci/v1.0/
  driver: parallels

Note

In the cloud profile that uses this provider configuration, the syntax for the provider required field would be provider: my-parallels-config.
Proxmox

Using Salt with Proxmox requires a user, password, and URL. These can be obtained from your cloud host. Both PAM and PVE users can be used.

my-proxmox-config:
  driver: proxmox
  user: saltcloud@pve
  password: xyzzy
  url: your.proxmox.host

Note

In the cloud profile that uses this provider configuration, the syntax for the provider required field would be provider: my-proxmox-config.
LXC

The lxc driver uses saltify to install salt and attach the lxc container as a new lxc minion. As soon as we can, we manage baremetal operation over SSH. You can also destroy those containers via this driver.

devhost10-lxc:
  target: devhost10
  driver: lxc

And in the map file:

devhost10-lxc:
  provider: devhost10-lxc
  from_container: ubuntu
  backing: lvm
  sudo: True
  size: 3g
  ip: 10.0.3.9
  minion:
    master: 10.5.0.1
    master_port: 4506
  lxc_conf:
    - lxc.utsname: superlxc

Note

In the cloud profile that uses this provider configuration, the syntax for the provider required field would be provider: devhost10-lxc.
Saltify

The Saltify driver is a new, experimental driver designed to install Salt on a remote machine, virtual or bare metal, using SSH. This driver is useful for provisioning machines which are already installed, but not Salted. For more information about using this driver and for configuration examples, please see the Gettting Started with Saltify documentation.
Vagrant

The Vagrant driver is a new, experimental driver for controlling a VagrantBox virtual machine, and installing Salt on it. The target host machine must be a working salt minion, which is controlled via the salt master using salt-api. For more information, see Getting Started With Vagrant.

### Extending Profiles and Cloud Providers Configuration

As of 0.8.7, the option to extend both the profiles and cloud providers configuration and avoid duplication was added. The extends feature works on the current profiles configuration, but, regarding the cloud providers configuration, only works in the new syntax and respective configuration files, i.e. /etc/salt/salt/cloud.providers or /etc/salt/cloud.providers.d/*.conf.

Note

Extending cloud profiles and providers is not recursive. For example, a profile that is extended by a second profile is possible, but the second profile cannot be extended by a third profile.

Also, if a profile (or provider) is extending another profile and each contains a list of values, the lists from the extending profile will override the list from the original profile. The lists are not merged together.
Extending Profiles

Some example usage on how to use extends with profiles. Consider /etc/salt/salt/cloud.profiles containing:

development-instances:
  provider: my-ec2-config
  size: t1.micro
  ssh_username: ec2_user
  securitygroup:
    - default
  deploy: False

Amazon-Linux-AMI-2012.09-64bit:
  image: ami-54cf5c3d
  extends: development-instances

Fedora-17:
  image: ami-08d97e61
  extends: development-instances

CentOS-5:
  provider: my-aws-config
  image: ami-09b61d60
  extends: development-instances

The above configuration, once parsed would generate the following profiles data:

[{'deploy': False,
  'image': 'ami-08d97e61',
  'profile': 'Fedora-17',
  'provider': 'my-ec2-config',
  'securitygroup': ['default'],
  'size': 't1.micro',
  'ssh_username': 'ec2_user'},
 {'deploy': False,
  'image': 'ami-09b61d60',
  'profile': 'CentOS-5',
  'provider': 'my-aws-config',
  'securitygroup': ['default'],
  'size': 't1.micro',
  'ssh_username': 'ec2_user'},
 {'deploy': False,
  'image': 'ami-54cf5c3d',
  'profile': 'Amazon-Linux-AMI-2012.09-64bit',
  'provider': 'my-ec2-config',
  'securitygroup': ['default'],
  'size': 't1.micro',
  'ssh_username': 'ec2_user'},
 {'deploy': False,
  'profile': 'development-instances',
  'provider': 'my-ec2-config',
  'securitygroup': ['default'],
  'size': 't1.micro',
  'ssh_username': 'ec2_user'}]

Pretty cool right?
Extending Providers

Some example usage on how to use extends within the cloud providers configuration. Consider /etc/salt/salt/cloud.providers containing:

my-develop-envs:
  - id: HJGRYCILJLKJYG
    key: 'kdjgfsgm;woormgl/aserigjksjdhasdfgn'
    keyname: test
    securitygroup: quick-start
    private_key: /root/test.pem
    location: ap-southeast-1
    availability_zone: ap-southeast-1b
    driver: ec2

  - user: myuser@mycorp.com
    password: mypass
    ssh_key_name: mykey
    ssh_key_file: '/etc/salt/ibm/mykey.pem'
    location: Raleigh
    driver: ibmsce


my-productions-envs:
  - extends: my-develop-envs:ibmsce
    user: my-production-user@mycorp.com
    location: us-east-1
    availability_zone: us-east-1

The above configuration, once parsed would generate the following providers data:

'providers': {
    'my-develop-envs': [
        {'availability_zone': 'ap-southeast-1b',
         'id': 'HJGRYCILJLKJYG',
         'key': 'kdjgfsgm;woormgl/aserigjksjdhasdfgn',
         'keyname': 'test',
         'location': 'ap-southeast-1',
         'private_key': '/root/test.pem',
         'driver': 'aws',
         'securitygroup': 'quick-start'
        },
        {'location': 'Raleigh',
         'password': 'mypass',
         'driver': 'ibmsce',
         'ssh_key_file': '/etc/salt/ibm/mykey.pem',
         'ssh_key_name': 'mykey',
         'user': 'myuser@mycorp.com'
        }
    ],
    'my-productions-envs': [
        {'availability_zone': 'us-east-1',
         'location': 'us-east-1',
         'password': 'mypass',
         'driver': 'ibmsce',
         'ssh_key_file': '/etc/salt/ibm/mykey.pem',
         'ssh_key_name': 'mykey',
         'user': 'my-production-user@mycorp.com'
        }
    ]
}



https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/topics/cloud/config.html
