# Python client API - Python 客户端程序API

Salt提供了几个与Python应用程序交互的接口。 这些接口通常称为`*Client()` APIs。 每个客户端都可以从master服务器或minion服务器访问Salt的不同服务。 每类`Client API`的详细使用信息都会在下文进行说明。

> 还可以了解下以下信息。
>
> 有许多方法可以通过编程方式访问Salt。
>
> 可以从CLI脚本以及通过REST接口使用Salt。
>
> 请参阅Salt的[outputter system](https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/ref/output/all/index.html#all-salt-output)系统，以JSON或Shell友好的文本或许多其他格式从Salt检索结构化数据。
>
> 请参阅[state.event](https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/ref/runners/all/salt.runners.state.html#salt.runners.state.event) runner程序，以在Shell中使用Salt的事件总线。
>
> Salt的`netapi`模块提供了通过REST接口从外部访问Salt的功能。 查看`netapi`模块文档以获取更多信息。

## Salt's **opts** dictionary - 访问Salt的`opts`配置信息字典的API接口

一些客户端需要访问Salt的`opts`字典。 （这是master配置文件或minion配置文件的字典表示。）

提取`opts`词典的一种常见模式是存放到环境变量中，或者以其他方式从默认位置获取配置。

### client_config

**salt.config.client_config(path, env_var='SALT_CLIENT_CONFIG', defaults=None)**

功能：加载Master配置文件数据

使用方法:
```Python
    import salt.config
    master_opts = salt.config.client_config('/etc/salt/master')
```

返回Salt Master配置文件的字典，其中包含与在本地运行的Salt Master守护程序进行通信所需的必要选项。 此功能可以为客户端搜索特定的配置，并将其添加到master配置的数据中。

这对于像[LocalClient](https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/ref/clients/index.html#salt.client.LocalClient)这样的master端操作很有用。

### minion_config

**salt.config.minion_config(path, env_var='SALT_MINION_CONFIG', defaults=None, cache_minion_id=False, ignore_config_errors=True, minion_id=None, role='minion')**

功能：读取minion配置文件并设置特殊选项

这对于Minion端操作（例如[Caller](https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/ref/clients/index.html#salt.client.Caller)类）以及手动运行加载程序接口很有用。

使用方法：
```python
    import salt.config
    minion_opts = salt.config.minion_config('/etc/salt/minion')
```

## Salt's Loader Interface - Salt模块加载器的API接口

Salt运行环境中的模块是通过特定的加载程序系统加载到内存中的。 这使得模块有使用条件要求（操作系统、操作系统版本、安装的库等），并允许Salt注入特殊变量（`__salt__`，`__opts__`等）。

大多数模块可以手动加载。 这在第三方Python应用程序或编写测试时通常很有用。 但是，某些模块要求并期望其下层系统具有完整的、可运行的Salt系统。 值得注意的是需要从master到minion进行通信的模块，如[mine](https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/ref/modules/all/salt.modules.mine.html#module-salt.modules.mine), [publish](https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/ref/modules/all/salt.modules.publish.html#module-salt.modules.publish)以及 `peer`模块。 错误信息`KeyError: 'master_uri'`可能是这种情况的指示。 在这些情况下时，请使用[Caller](https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/ref/clients/index.html#salt.client.Caller)类执行这些模块。

Salt中的每种模块类型都有相应的加载器函数。

### minion_mods

**salt.loader.minion_mods(opts, context=None, utils=None, whitelist=None, initial_load=False, loaded_base_name=None, notify=False, static_modules=None, proxy=None)**

功能：加载执行模块

通过评估每个模块中的`__virtual __()`函数，返回适用于当前系统的执行模块字典。

**Parameters**

- opts (dict) -- Salt options 字典
- context (dict) -- 默认在`__context__`中保存的一个Salt上下文
- utils (dict) -- Salt模块应该可以使用的`__utils__`实用程序功能。 有关配置的其他信息，请参见salt.config中的utils_dirs。
- whitelist (list) -- 模块的白名单列表
- initial_load (bool) -- 该参数已做废
- loaded_base_name (str) -- 加载的基本名称的一个字符串标记。
- notify (bool) -- 指示应在模块加载完成时触发事件的标志。

```Python
    import salt.config
    import salt.loader

    __opts__ = salt.config.minion_config('/etc/salt/minion')
    __grains__ = salt.loader.grains(__opts__)
    __opts__['grains'] = __grains__
    __utils__ = salt.loader.utils(__opts__)
    __salt__ = salt.loader.minion_mods(__opts__, utils=__utils__)
    __salt__['test.ping']()
```

### raw_mod

**salt.loader.raw_mod(opts, name, functions, mod='modules')**

功能：返回单个加载的原始模块并绕过__virtual__函数

```Python
    import salt.config
    import salt.loader

    __opts__ = salt.config.minion_config('/etc/salt/minion')
    testmod = salt.loader.raw_mod(__opts__, 'test', None)
    testmod['test.ping']()
```

### states

**salt.loader.states(opts, functions, utils, serializers, whitelist=None, proxy=None)**

功能：返回state模块

**Parameters**

- opts (dict) -- Salt options 字典
- functions (dict) -- minions模块的字典，模块名称为key，函数为value。

```Python
    import salt.config
    import salt.loader

    __opts__ = salt.config.minion_config('/etc/salt/minion')
    statemods = salt.loader.states(__opts__, None, None)
```

### grains

**salt.loader.grains(opts, force_refresh=False, proxy=None)**

功能：返回动态grains的函数以及静态grains的值

由于grains是在启动过程的早期进行计算的，因此grains函数没有`__salt__`或`__proxy__`可用。 在proxy-minion启动时，此函数与proxymodule LazyLoader对象一起调用，因此grains函数可以与其受控设备进行通信。
```Python
    import salt.config
    import salt.loader

    __opts__ = salt.config.minion_config('/etc/salt/minion')
    __grains__ = salt.loader.grains(__opts__)
    print __grains__['id']
```

### grain_funcs

**salt.loader.grain_funcs(opts, proxy=None)**

功能：返回grain 函数

```Python
        import salt.config
        import salt.loader

        __opts__ = salt.config.minion_config('/etc/salt/minion')
        grainfuncs = salt.loader.grain_funcs(__opts__)
```

## Salt's Client Interfaces

### LocalClient

**class salt.client.LocalClient(c_path='/etc/salt/master', mopts=None, skip_perm_errors=False, io_loop=None, keep_loop=False, auto_reconnect=False)**

功能：Salt Master上的Salt CLI工具使用的API接口

`LocalClient`用于向Salt minions发送命令以执行执行模块，并将结果返回给Salt Master。

导入和使用`LocalClient`必须与Salt Master在同一台计算机上完成，并且必须使用与Salt Master在同一用户上进行。 （除非配置了[external_auth](https://docs.saltstack.com/en/latest/ref/configuration/master.html#std:conf_master-external_auth)，并且执行中包括身份验证凭据）。

> 注意
>
> LocalClient使用Tornado IOLoop，这在已有的IOLoop中使用LocalClient时会产生问题。 如果与另一个IOLoop合作创建LocalClient，请在创建LocalClient之前创建IOLoop，或者在创建IOLoop时使用ioloop.current()，它将返回LocalClient创建的ioloop。

```Python
    import salt.client

    local = salt.client.LocalClient()
    local.cmd('*', 'test.fib', [10])
```

#### cmd

**cmd(tgt, fun, arg=(), timeout=None, tgt_type='glob', ret='', jid='', full_return=False, kwarg=None, **kwargs)**

功能：以同步的方式在目标minions上执行一个管理命令

cmd方法将执行并等待所有minions答复的超时时间，然后它将立即返回所有minions的数据。

```Python
        >>> import salt.client
        >>> local = salt.client.LocalClient()
        >>> local.cmd('*', 'cmd.run', ['whoami'])
        {'jerry': 'root'}
```

当需要使用更多的关键字参数时：
```Python
        local.cmd('*', 'test.arg', ['arg1', 'arg2'], kwarg={'foo': 'bar'})
```

复合命令可在一次发布中用于多次执行。 函数名称和函数使用的参数在单独的列表中提供，但索引值必须相关，如果不需要参数，则必须使用空列表。

```python
        >>> local.cmd('*', [
                'grains.items',
                'sys.doc',
                'cmd.run',
            ],
            [
                [],
                [],
                ['uptime'],
            ])
```

**Parameters**

- tgt (string or list) -- 要执行的目标是哪些minions。 默认值为shell glob。 可由`tgt_type`选项修改。

                fun (string or list of strings) --

                The module and function to call on the specified minions of the form module.function. For example test.ping or grains.items.

                Compound commands

                    Multiple functions may be called in a single publish by passing a list of commands. This can dramatically lower overhead and speed up the application communicating with Salt.

                    This requires that the arg param is a list of lists. The fun list and the arg list must correlate by index meaning a function that does not take arguments must still have a corresponding empty list at the expected index.

                arg (list or list-of-lists) -- A list of arguments to pass to the remote function. If the function takes no arguments arg may be omitted except when executing a compound command.

                timeout -- Seconds to wait after the last minion returns but before all minions return.

                tgt_type --

                The type of tgt. Allowed values:

                    glob - Bash glob completion - Default

                    pcre - Perl style regular expression

                    list - Python list of hosts

                    grain - Match based on a grain comparison

                    grain_pcre - Grain comparison with a regex

                    pillar - Pillar data comparison

                    pillar_pcre - Pillar data comparison with a regex

                    nodegroup - Match on nodegroup

                    range - Use a Range server for matching

                    compound - Pass a compound match string

                    ipcidr - Match based on Subnet (CIDR notation) or IPv4 address.

                Changed in version 2017.7.0: Renamed from expr_form to tgt_type

                ret -- The returner to use. The value passed can be single returner, or a comma delimited list of returners to call in order on the minions

                kwarg -- A dictionary with keyword arguments for the function.

                full_return -- Output the job return only (default) or the full return including exit code and other job metadata.

                kwargs --

                Optional keyword arguments. Authentication credentials may be passed when using external_auth.

                For example: local.cmd('*', 'test.ping', username='saltdev', password='saltdev', eauth='pam'). Or: local.cmd('*', 'test.ping', token='5871821ea51754fdcea8153c1c745433')

        Returns

            A dictionary with the result of the execution, keyed by minion ID. A compound command will return a sub-dictionary keyed by function name.

    cmd_async(tgt, fun, arg=(), tgt_type='glob', ret='', jid='', kwarg=None, **kwargs)

        Asynchronously send a command to connected minions

        The function signature is the same as cmd() with the following exceptions.

        Returns

            A job ID or 0 on failure.

        >>> local.cmd_async('*', 'test.sleep', [300])
        '20131219215921857715'

    cmd_batch(tgt, fun, arg=(), tgt_type='glob', ret='', kwarg=None, batch='10%', **kwargs)

        Iteratively execute a command on subsets of minions at a time

        The function signature is the same as cmd() with the following exceptions.

        Parameters

            batch -- The batch identifier of systems to execute on
        Returns

            A generator of minion returns

        >>> returns = local.cmd_batch('*', 'state.highstate', batch='10%')
        >>> for ret in returns:
        ...     print(ret)
        {'jerry': {...}}
        {'dave': {...}}
        {'stewart': {...}}

    cmd_iter(tgt, fun, arg=(), timeout=None, tgt_type='glob', ret='', kwarg=None, **kwargs)

        Yields the individual minion returns as they come in

        The function signature is the same as cmd() with the following exceptions.

        Normally cmd_iter() does not yield results for minions that are not connected. If you want it to return results for disconnected minions set expect_minions=True in kwargs.

        Returns

            A generator yielding the individual minion returns

        >>> ret = local.cmd_iter('*', 'test.ping')
        >>> for i in ret:
        ...     print(i)
        {'jerry': {'ret': True}}
        {'dave': {'ret': True}}
        {'stewart': {'ret': True}}

    cmd_iter_no_block(tgt, fun, arg=(), timeout=None, tgt_type='glob', ret='', kwarg=None, show_jid=False, verbose=False, **kwargs)

        Yields the individual minion returns as they come in, or None

            when no returns are available.

        The function signature is the same as cmd() with the following exceptions.

        Returns

            A generator yielding the individual minion returns, or None when no returns are available. This allows for actions to be injected in between minion returns.

        >>> ret = local.cmd_iter_no_block('*', 'test.ping')
        >>> for i in ret:
        ...     print(i)
        None
        {'jerry': {'ret': True}}
        {'dave': {'ret': True}}
        None
        {'stewart': {'ret': True}}

    cmd_subset(tgt, fun, arg=(), tgt_type='glob', ret='', kwarg=None, sub=3, cli=False, progress=False, full_return=False, **kwargs)

        Execute a command on a random subset of the targeted systems

        The function signature is the same as cmd() with the following exceptions.

        Parameters

                sub -- The number of systems to execute on

                cli -- When this is set to True, a generator is returned, otherwise a dictionary of the minion returns is returned

        >>> SLC.cmd_subset('*', 'test.ping', sub=1)
        {'jerry': True}

    get_cli_returns(jid, minions, timeout=None, tgt='*', tgt_type='glob', verbose=False, show_jid=False, **kwargs)

        Starts a watcher looking at the return data for a specified JID

        Returns

            all of the information for the JID

    get_event_iter_returns(jid, minions, timeout=None)

        Gather the return data from the event system, break hard when timeout is reached.

    run_job(tgt, fun, arg=(), tgt_type='glob', ret='', timeout=None, jid='', kwarg=None, listen=False, **kwargs)

        Asynchronously send a command to connected minions

        Prep the job directory and publish a command to any targeted minions.

        Returns

            A dictionary of (validated) pub_data or an empty dictionary on failure. The pub_data contains the job ID and a list of all minions that are expected to return data.

        >>> local.run_job('*', 'test.sleep', [300])
        {'jid': '20131219215650131543', 'minions': ['jerry']}

Salt Caller

class salt.client.Caller(c_path='/etc/salt/minion', mopts=None)

    Caller is the same interface used by the salt-call command-line tool on the Salt Minion.

    Changed in version 2015.8.0: Added the cmd method for consistency with the other Salt clients. The existing function and sminion.functions interfaces still exist but have been removed from the docs.

    Importing and using Caller must be done on the same machine as a Salt Minion and it must be done using the same user that the Salt Minion is running as.

    Usage:

    import salt.client
    caller = salt.client.Caller()
    caller.cmd('test.ping')

    Note, a running master or minion daemon is not required to use this class. Running salt-call --local simply sets file_client to 'local'. The same can be achieved at the Python level by including that setting in a minion config file.

    New in version 2014.7.0: Pass the minion config as the mopts dictionary.

    import salt.client
    import salt.config
    __opts__ = salt.config.minion_config('/etc/salt/minion')
    __opts__['file_client'] = 'local'
    caller = salt.client.Caller(mopts=__opts__)

    cmd(fun, *args, **kwargs)

        Call an execution module with the given arguments and keyword arguments

        Changed in version 2015.8.0: Added the cmd method for consistency with the other Salt clients. The existing function and sminion.functions interfaces still exist but have been removed from the docs.

        caller.cmd('test.arg', 'Foo', 'Bar', baz='Baz')

        caller.cmd('event.send', 'myco/myevent/something',
            data={'foo': 'Foo'}, with_env=['GIT_COMMIT'], with_grains=True)

Salt Proxy Caller

class salt.client.ProxyCaller(c_path='/etc/salt/proxy', mopts=None)

    ProxyCaller is the same interface used by the salt-call with the args --proxyid <proxyid> command-line tool on the Salt Proxy Minion.

    Importing and using ProxyCaller must be done on the same machine as a Salt Minion and it must be done using the same user that the Salt Minion is running as.

    Usage:

    import salt.client
    caller = salt.client.Caller()
    caller.cmd('test.ping')

    Note, a running master or minion daemon is not required to use this class. Running salt-call --local simply sets file_client to 'local'. The same can be achieved at the Python level by including that setting in a minion config file.

    import salt.client
    import salt.config
    __opts__ = salt.config.proxy_config('/etc/salt/proxy', minion_id='quirky_edison')
    __opts__['file_client'] = 'local'
    caller = salt.client.ProxyCaller(mopts=__opts__)

    Note

    To use this for calling proxies, the is_proxy functions requires that --proxyid be an argument on the commandline for the script this is used in, or that the string proxy is in the name of the script.

    cmd(fun, *args, **kwargs)

        Call an execution module with the given arguments and keyword arguments

        caller.cmd('test.arg', 'Foo', 'Bar', baz='Baz')

        caller.cmd('event.send', 'myco/myevent/something',
            data={'foo': 'Foo'}, with_env=['GIT_COMMIT'], with_grains=True)

RunnerClient

class salt.runner.RunnerClient(opts)

    The interface used by the salt-run CLI tool on the Salt Master

    It executes runner modules which run on the Salt Master.

    Importing and using RunnerClient must be done on the same machine as the Salt Master and it must be done using the same user that the Salt Master is running as.

    Salt's external_auth can be used to authenticate calls. The eauth user must be authorized to execute runner modules: (@runner). Only the master_call() below supports eauth.

    asynchronous(fun, low, user='UNKNOWN', pub=None)

        Execute the function in a multiprocess and return the event tag to use to watch for the return

    cmd(fun, arg=None, pub_data=None, kwarg=None, print_event=True, full_return=False)

        Execute a function

    cmd_async(low)

        Execute a runner function asynchronously; eauth is respected

        This function requires that external_auth is configured and the user is authorized to execute runner functions: (@runner).

        runner.eauth_async({
            'fun': 'jobs.list_jobs',
            'username': 'saltdev',
            'password': 'saltdev',
            'eauth': 'pam',
        })

    cmd_sync(low, timeout=None, full_return=False)

        Execute a runner function synchronously; eauth is respected

        This function requires that external_auth is configured and the user is authorized to execute runner functions: (@runner).

        runner.eauth_sync({
            'fun': 'jobs.list_jobs',
            'username': 'saltdev',
            'password': 'saltdev',
            'eauth': 'pam',
        })

WheelClient

class salt.wheel.WheelClient(opts=None)

    An interface to Salt's wheel modules

    Wheel modules interact with various parts of the Salt Master.

    Importing and using WheelClient must be done on the same machine as the Salt Master and it must be done using the same user that the Salt Master is running as. Unless external_auth is configured and the user is authorized to execute wheel functions: (@wheel).

    Usage:

    import salt.config
    import salt.wheel
    opts = salt.config.master_config('/etc/salt/master')
    wheel = salt.wheel.WheelClient(opts)

    asynchronous(fun, low, user='UNKNOWN', pub=None)

        Execute the function in a multiprocess and return the event tag to use to watch for the return

    cmd(fun, arg=None, pub_data=None, kwarg=None, print_event=True, full_return=False)

        Execute a function

        >>> wheel.cmd('key.finger', ['jerry'])
        {'minions': {'jerry': '5d:f6:79:43:5e:d4:42:3f:57:b8:45:a8:7e:a4:6e:ca'}}

    cmd_async(low)

        Execute a function asynchronously; eauth is respected

        This function requires that external_auth is configured and the user is authorized

        >>> wheel.cmd_async({
            'fun': 'key.finger',
            'match': 'jerry',
            'eauth': 'auto',
            'username': 'saltdev',
            'password': 'saltdev',
        })
        {'jid': '20131219224744416681', 'tag': 'salt/wheel/20131219224744416681'}

    cmd_sync(low, timeout=None, full_return=False)

        Execute a wheel function synchronously; eauth is respected

        This function requires that external_auth is configured and the user is authorized to execute runner functions: (@wheel).

        >>> wheel.cmd_sync({
        'fun': 'key.finger',
        'match': 'jerry',
        'eauth': 'auto',
        'username': 'saltdev',
        'password': 'saltdev',
        })
        {'minions': {'jerry': '5d:f6:79:43:5e:d4:42:3f:57:b8:45:a8:7e:a4:6e:ca'}}

CloudClient

class salt.cloud.CloudClient(path=None, opts=None, config_dir=None, pillars=None)

    The client class to wrap cloud interactions

    action(fun=None, cloudmap=None, names=None, provider=None, instance=None, kwargs=None)

        Execute a single action via the cloud plugin backend

        Examples:

        client.action(fun='show_instance', names=['myinstance'])
        client.action(fun='show_image', provider='my-ec2-config',
            kwargs={'image': 'ami-10314d79'}
        )

    create(provider, names, **kwargs)

        Create the named VMs, without using a profile

        Example:

        client.create(provider='my-ec2-config', names=['myinstance'],
            image='ami-1624987f', size='t1.micro', ssh_username='ec2-user',
            securitygroup='default', delvol_on_destroy=True)

    destroy(names)

        Destroy the named VMs

    extra_action(names, provider, action, **kwargs)

        Perform actions with block storage devices

        Example:

        client.extra_action(names=['myblock'], action='volume_create',
            provider='my-nova', kwargs={'voltype': 'SSD', 'size': 1000}
        )
        client.extra_action(names=['salt-net'], action='network_create',
            provider='my-nova', kwargs={'cidr': '192.168.100.0/24'}
        )

    full_query(query_type='list_nodes_full')

        Query all instance information

    list_images(provider=None)

        List all available images in configured cloud systems

    list_locations(provider=None)

        List all available locations in configured cloud systems

    list_sizes(provider=None)

        List all available sizes in configured cloud systems

    low(fun, low)

        Pass the cloud function and low data structure to run

    map_run(path=None, **kwargs)

        To execute a map

    min_query(query_type='list_nodes_min')

        Query select instance information

    profile(profile, names, vm_overrides=None, **kwargs)

        Pass in a profile to create, names is a list of vm names to allocate

            vm_overrides is a special dict that will be per node options overrides

        Example:

        >>> client= salt.cloud.CloudClient(path='/etc/salt/cloud')
        >>> client.profile('do_512_git', names=['minion01',])
        {'minion01': {'backups_active': 'False',
                'created_at': '2014-09-04T18:10:15Z',
                'droplet': {'event_id': 31000502,
                             'id': 2530006,
                             'image_id': 5140006,
                             'name': 'minion01',
                             'size_id': 66},
                'id': '2530006',
                'image_id': '5140006',
                'ip_address': '107.XXX.XXX.XXX',
                'locked': 'True',
                'name': 'minion01',
                'private_ip_address': None,
                'region_id': '4',
                'size_id': '66',
                'status': 'new'}}

    query(query_type='list_nodes')

        Query basic instance information

    select_query(query_type='list_nodes_select')

        Query select instance information

SSHClient

class salt.client.ssh.client.SSHClient(c_path='/etc/salt/master', mopts=None, disable_custom_roster=False)

    Create a client object for executing routines via the salt-ssh backend

    New in version 2015.5.0.

    cmd(tgt, fun, arg=(), timeout=None, tgt_type='glob', kwarg=None, **kwargs)

        Execute a single command via the salt-ssh subsystem and return all routines at once

        New in version 2015.5.0.

    cmd_iter(tgt, fun, arg=(), timeout=None, tgt_type='glob', ret='', kwarg=None, **kwargs)

        Execute a single command via the salt-ssh subsystem and return a generator

        New in version 2015.5.0.
