# salt-ssh

## Synopsis - 语法
```bash
salt-ssh '*' [ options ] sys.doc

salt-ssh -E '.*' [ options ] sys.doc cmd
```
## Description - 使用说明

Salt SSH allows for salt routines to be executed using only SSH for transport

## Options - 可用的配置项

**--version**

    Print the version of Salt that is running.

**--versions-report**

    Show program's dependencies and version number, and then exit

**-h, --help**

    Show the help message and exit

**-c CONFIG_DIR, --config-dir=CONFIG_dir**

    The location of the Salt configuration directory. This directory contains the configuration files for Salt master and minions. The default location on most systems is /etc/salt.

**--hard-crash**

    Raise any original exception rather than exiting gracefully. Default: False.

**-r, --raw, --raw-shell**

    Execute a raw shell command.

**--roster**

    Define which roster system to use, this defines if a database backend, scanner, or custom roster system is used. Default is the flat file roster.

**-roster-file**

    Define an alternative location for the default roster file location. The default roster file is called roster and is found in the same directory as the master config file.

    New in version 2014.1.0.

**--refresh, --refresh-cache**

    Force a refresh of the master side data cache of the target's data. This is needed if a target's grains have been changed and the auto refresh timeframe has not been reached.

**--max-procs**

    Set the number of concurrent minions to communicate with. This value defines how many processes are opened up at a time to manage connections, the more running process the faster communication should be, default is 25.

**--extra-filerefs=EXTRA_FILEREFS**

    Pass in extra files to include in the state tarball.

**--min-extra-modules=MIN_EXTRA_MODS**

    One or comma-separated list of extra Python modulesto be included into Minimal Salt.

**--thin-extra-modules=THIN_EXTRA_MODS**

    One or comma-separated list of extra Python modulesto be included into Thin Salt.

**-v, --verbose**

    Turn on command verbosity, display jid.

**-s, --static**

    Return the data from minions as a group after they all return.

**-w, --wipe**

    Remove the deployment of the salt files when done executing.

**-W, --rand-thin-dir**

    Select a random temp dir to deploy on the remote system. The dir will be cleaned after the execution.

**-t, --regen-thin, --thin**

    Trigger a thin tarball regeneration. This is needed if custom grains/modules/states have been added or updated.

**--python2-bin=PYTHON2_BIN**

    Path to a python2 binary which has salt installed.

**--python3-bin=PYTHON3_BIN**

    Path to a python3 binary which has salt installed.

**--jid=JID**

    Pass a JID to be used instead of generating one.

### Authentication Options - 认证相关的配置项

**--priv=SSH_PRIV**

    Specify the SSH private key file to be used for authentication.

**--priv-passwd=SSH_PRIV_PASSWD**

    Specify the SSH private key file's passphrase if need be.

**-i, --ignore-host-keys**

    By default ssh host keys are honored and connections will ask for approval. Use this option to disable StrictHostKeyChecking.

**--no-host-keys**

    Fully ignores ssh host keys which by default are honored and connections would ask for approval. Useful if the host key of a remote server has changed and would still error with --ignore-host-keys.

**--user=SSH_USER**

    Set the default user to attempt to use when authenticating.

**--passwd**

    Set the default password to attempt to use when authenticating.

**--askpass**

    Interactively ask for the SSH password with no echo - avoids password in process args and stored in history.

**--key-deploy**

    Set this flag to attempt to deploy the authorized ssh key with all minions. This combined with --passwd can make initial deployment of keys very fast and easy.

**--identities-only**

    Use the only authentication identity files configured in the ssh_config files. See IdentitiesOnly flag in man ssh_config.

**--sudo**

    Run command via sudo.

### Scan Roster Options - 花名册扫描相关的配置项

**--scan-ports=SSH_SCAN_PORTS**

    Comma-separated list of ports to scan in the scan roster.

**--scan-timeout=SSH_SCAN_TIMEOUT**

    Scanning socket timeout for the scan roster.

### Logging Options - 日志相关的配置项

Logging options which override any settings defined on the configuration files.

**-l LOG_LEVEL, --log-level=LOG_LEVEL**

    Console logging log level. One of all, garbage, trace, debug, info, warning, error, quiet. Default: warning.

**--log-file=LOG_FILE**

    Log file path. Default: /var/log/salt/ssh.

**--log-file-level=LOG_LEVEL_LOGFILE**

    Logfile logging log level. One of all, garbage, trace, debug, info, warning, error, quiet. Default: warning.

### Target Selection - 目标选择

The default matching that Salt utilizes is shell-style globbing around the minion id. See https://docs.python.org/2/library/fnmatch.html#module-fnmatch.

**-E, --pcre**

    The target expression will be interpreted as a PCRE regular expression rather than a shell glob.

### Output Options - 输出相关的配置项

**--out**

    Pass in an alternative outputter to display the return of data. This outputter can be any of the available outputters:

        highstate, json, key, overstatestage, pprint, raw, txt, yaml, and many others.

    Some outputters are formatted only for data returned from specific functions. If an outputter is used that does not support the data passed into it, then Salt will fall back on the pprint outputter and display the return data using the Python pprint standard library module.

    Note

    If using --out=json, you will probably want --static as well. Without the static option, you will get a separate JSON string per minion which makes JSON output invalid as a whole. This is due to using an iterative outputter. So if you want to feed it to a JSON parser, use --static as well.

**--out-indent OUTPUT_INDENT, --output-indent OUTPUT_INDENT**

    Print the output indented by the provided value in spaces. Negative values disable indentation. Only applicable in outputters that support indentation.

**--out-file=OUTPUT_FILE, --output-file=OUTPUT_FILE**

    Write the output to the specified file.

**--out-file-append, --output-file-append**

    Append the output to the specified file.

**--no-color**

    Disable all colored output

**--force-color**

    Force colored output

    Note

    When using colored output the color codes are as follows:

    green denotes success, red denotes failure, blue denotes changes and success and yellow denotes a expected future change in configuration.

**--state-output=STATE_OUTPUT, --state_output=STATE_OUTPUT**

    Override the configured state_output value for minion output. One of 'full', 'terse', 'mixed', 'changes' or 'filter'. Default: 'none'.

**--state-verbose=STATE_VERBOSE, --state_verbose=STATE_VERBOSE**

    Override the configured state_verbose value for minion output. Set to True or False. Default: none.
