# TARGETING MINIONS
定位minions，是指定哪些minions应该执行管理命令或通过匹配主机名、系统信息、定义的组，甚至以上条件的组合来执行states状态。

例如，命令`salt web1 apache.signal restart`，可以重新启动机器web1上的Apache httpd服务，并且该命令将仅在该这一个minion上运行。

类似地，当使用States时，以下top file文件指定了只有`web1` minion应该执行`webserver.sls`的内容：
```yaml
base:
  'web1':
    - webserver
```
简单的目标直接匹配、glob通配符匹配、regex正则表达式以及列表，将可以涵盖许多的使用用例，其中有些甚至可以涵盖所有用例，但除此之外还存在更强大的选项。

## TARGETING WITH GRAINS
The Grains interface was built into Salt to allow minions to be targeted by system properties. So minions running on a particular operating system can be called to execute a function, or a specific kernel.

Calling via a grain is done by passing the -G option to salt, specifying a grain and a glob expression to match the value of the grain. The syntax for the target is the grain key followed by a glob expression: "os:Arch*".

salt -G 'os:Fedora' test.version
Will return True from all of the minions running Fedora.

To discover what grains are available and what the values are, execute the grains.item salt function:

salt '*' grains.items
More info on using targeting with grains can be found here.

COMPOUND TARGETING
New in version 0.9.5.

Multiple target interfaces can be used in conjunction to determine the command targets. These targets can then be combined using and or or statements. This is well defined with an example:

salt -C 'G@os:Debian and webser* or E@db.*' test.version
In this example any minion who's id starts with webser and is running Debian, or any minion who's id starts with db will be matched.

The type of matcher defaults to glob, but can be specified with the corresponding letter followed by the @ symbol. In the above example a grain is used with G@ as well as a regular expression with E@. The webser* target does not need to be prefaced with a target type specifier because it is a glob.

More info on using compound targeting can be found here.

NODE GROUP TARGETING
New in version 0.9.5.

For certain cases, it can be convenient to have a predefined group of minions on which to execute commands. This can be accomplished using what are called nodegroups. Nodegroups allow for predefined compound targets to be declared in the master configuration file, as a sort of shorthand for having to type out complicated compound expressions.

nodegroups:
  group1: 'L@foo.domain.com,bar.domain.com,baz.domain.com and bl*.domain.com'
  group2: 'G@os:Debian and foo.domain.com'
  group3: 'G@os:Debian and N@group1'
ADVANCED TARGETING METHODS
There are many ways to target individual minions or groups of minions in Salt:

Matching the minion id
Globbing
Regular Expressions
Lists
Targeting using Grains
Targeting using Pillar
Subnet/IP Address Matching
Compound matchers
Precedence Matching
Alternate Delimiters
Node groups
Defining Nodegroups as Lists of Minion IDs
Batch Size
SECO Range
Prerequisites
Preparing Salt
Targeting with Range
LOADABLE MATCHERS
New in version 2019.2.0.

Internally targeting is implemented with chunks of code called Matchers. As of the 2019.2.0 release, matchers can be loaded dynamically. Currently new matchers cannot be created, but existing matchers can have their functionality altered or extended. For more information on Matchers see

Loadable Matchers
